---
layout: person
contact-name: Mimi Rose
contact-title: Program Coordinator, International Visitors Program
category: "person"
email: msurose@ucdavis.edu
phone: (530) 752-0464
image: /media/team/mrose
permalink: /team/mimi-rose
published: false
tags:
- Administration
---

Mimi Rose is no stranger to UC Davis. In the 90s Mimi worked with faculty in Plant Biology – Weed Science for three years and then went on to working with University Extension and International Housing for the balance of her first stint with UC Davis. After more than seven years of flawless work, Mimi left UC Davis to master the art of motherhood! She spent the next six years raising her three children and managing her home business, Notary Rose Executive Services. As the kids grew up, it was time for Mimi to get out of the house coat and back to the working world. In 2004 Mimi took a job working with the Yolo County Administrator’s office and Human Resources. She handled administrative duties for the Assistant County Administrator, employee recognition programs and payroll and benefits for the County. Mimi’s life took a turn at the end of 2010, which put her on the path back to UC Davis. In January 2011 Mimi accepted a position as a temporary employee at UC Davis, working for University Outreach and International Programs (UOIP) and the Robert Mondavi Institute (RMI). In October 2011 Mimi was hired by the UC Davis Chancellor’s 2020 Initiative office. As the need for administrative assistance diminished for the Initiative, Mimi began searching for another home. Because Mimi was born and raised in a farming community and family and has much experience working with the agricultural industry, she looked to the College and Agriculture and Environmental Sciences for a home. In January 2013, Mimi’s diligence paid off when she was hired by our office to assist with program and visitors planning in International Programs. We welcome Mimi’s breadth of experience with the agricultural programs and industry.
